In the front of our bulletin today, I sing the mighty power of God is the part of the
song there.
And I was thinking about the power of our God as I was looking at the bulletin this
morning.
And aren't you thankful that we serve a God who has all power?
He didn't have some power, most power.
He has all power.
And he is the Lord God omnipotent.
He reigns, he rules.
And we understand that the Bible says, Jesus said that all power is given unto me in heaven
and earth.
Go ye therefore.
And we understand that he has all power and he is in control of all things and we rejoice
in that.
If you have your Bibles this morning, the book of Galatians and chapter number one,
Galatians chapter number one, we're going to look at a few verses of scripture here
as we're giving the message this morning.
And the apostle Paul is writing here in this text of scripture to those churches that were
established during the first missionary journey.
In Acts chapter number 13, God the Holy Spirit came and moved and led for Saul and Barnabas
to go on this journey.
They went into the region of Galatia and as they went into the region of Galatia, Acts
13 and 14 record for us all that was accomplished.
And we find that in that period of time, God allowed them to see four churches established
in the region of Galatia.
All of those churches are established and we find that they set in order, they ordain
people to lead the churches at the end of chapter 14 before they return to Antioch.
And we find that there were some false teachers that came in.
Listen, there's nothing new under the sun.
And there were false prophets in the Old Testament, there were false teachers, there are still
false teachers today, they're prevalent and we need to be careful.
That's why it's so important that we're settled and grounded in the truth.
The answer to error is truth.
And I'm thankful that God has given us a word, the Bible, and it is truth.
Thy word is truth.
And the Bible tells us that as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word that ye
may grow thereby.
And we find that Paul is now writing back to these churches and the book is called Galatians
and it's written to these four churches in the region of Galatia.
And as he's writing to them, he asks questions as he begins in the text of chapter number
one, he talks about being marveled that they were so soon removed in verse number six from
him that called you into the grace of Christ unto another gospel.
And he says this, which is not another, but there be some that trouble you and would pervert
the gospel of Christ.
And it's not really the purpose of the message this morning, but in summary, what was happening
and what continues to happen today, there are many people that mix grace and works as
a way by which you can be saved.
And I'm thankful that Jesus Christ paid it all.
He said it is finished and he paid for all of your sin and all of my sin and all of the
sin of the world.
And Paul says, I marvel, he had gone there, he taught them.
He declared the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, the death, the burial, the resurrection.
But there were some that came in and he says that they troubled them.
And he says this, that they pervert the gospel of Christ.
When someone adds works to grace, they are perverting the gospel of Christ.
And I understand that's not super popular today because there are many that do it, but
it is Bible truth.
We find that the apostle Paul, he begins to tell them in verse 11, notice what he says,
but I certify you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached of me is not after man.
For I neither received it of man, neither was I taught it, but by the revelation of
Jesus Christ.
And then I want you to notice in verse 13, it says, for ye have heard of my conversation
in time past in the Jews' religion, how that beyond measure I persecuted the church of
God and wasted it and profited in the Jews' religion above many my equals in mine own
nation, being more exceedingly zealous of the traditions of my fathers.
But then notice this word, but, in verse number 15.
I hope your life has a, a, a but, that conjunction.
What I was, but now what I am, amen?
And we find that he says, but when it pleased God who separated me from my mother's womb
and called me by his grace to reveal his son in me, that I might preach him among the heathen,
immediately I conferred not with flesh and blood.
Neither when I up to Jerusalem to them which were apostles before me, but I went into Arabia
and returned again into Damascus.
Even after three years I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter and abode with him fifteen days.
But other of the apostles saw I none, save James the Lord's brother.
Now the things which I write unto you, behold, before God I lie not.
Afterwards I came into the regions of Syria and Cilicia and was unknown by face unto the
churches of Judea which were in Christ.
But then notice verse 23, but they had heard only that he which persecuted us in times
past now preacheth the faith which once he destroyed and they glorified God in me.
John Newton said this, I am not what I ought to be.
I agree.
I am not what I ought to be.
I am not what I want to be.
I am not what I hope to be in another world, but still I am not what I once used to be.
And by the grace of God I am what I am.
Paul said in 1 Corinthians 15 and verse number 10, by the grace of God I am what I am.
This morning as we look at this text and we'll look at a number of other passages of scripture
as well, we find that this phrase is mentioned in verse number 23, but they had heard only
that he which persecuted us, notice this, in times past now preacheth the faith which
once he destroyed.
We see the same phrase in verse number 13, for you have heard of my conversation in time
past.
And so we see that in verse 13 and verse 23 there's this contrast, if you will, in times
past versus now.
What I was versus what I am.
This morning I'm going to preach a message, if you've looked at the back of the bulletin
you already know the title, I'm not who I used to be.
Today it's the last day of August, but it's a special day to me.
It's my spiritual birthday.
Twenty-eight years ago today I trust that Christ is my Savior.
I realized on that day that I was guilty and I was condemned.
The Bible says that if we receive not, if we believe not, that we're condemned already
in John chapter number 3.
And I find that I thank God my parents had been saved when I was a younger teenager and
I was in a church, a sound preaching church, a local church that preached the Bible, that
preached the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ.
And I remember that God was dealing with me personally.
For God so loved the world, and it's a wonderful truth, Dean can you make sure that door gets
shut there?
It's propped open and there's an echo.
Thank you.
So the TV is on in there in the security room and there's a delay and so everything that
I'm saying you're going to hear in the back if that door's propped open.
Thank you, Dean.
So as God was dealing with me personally, God so loved the world, but I'm reminded of
what the songwriter said, wonderful things in the Bible I read, but this is the dearest
that Jesus loves me.
I am so glad that Jesus loves me, Jesus loves even me.
And as an individual, God began to deal with my heart and God made it abundantly clear
to me, listen, it's the work of the Holy Spirit.
The Bible says in John chapter number 16 that he reproves the world of sin to convince.
And the Bible says the Christ righteousness and of judgment to come.
I was keenly aware as a 17-year-old young man at that time in my life, I was aware of
the fact that I had broken God's law and I was guilty and I was condemned.
And the consequence for breaking the law of God is spiritual death, separation from God
for all of eternity in a place that the Bible calls the lake of fire.
And I recognized that was me, that was my condition.
Can I tell you something that's very important for us to understand is that was your condition
as well or it may still be your condition.
The reality is that the apostle Paul in times past versus now, see there was a day in his
life and we won't take the time to look at the text this morning, but Acts chapter number
nine records for us the day in which Paul trusted Christ as his savior.
He was Saul at the time and we find that his life was changed.
I mean the truth of 2 Corinthians 5, 17 was true.
Paul's life, if any man be in Christ he is a new creature, old things are passed away,
behold all things are become new.
And I'd like to think this morning that that verse is true in my life as well.
28 years ago today, I remember the little home that we lived in, Camp Pendleton, California.
I think it was 221 Chosen Circle if I remember the address correctly.
And I remember going in that living room, not a very large house, military housing,
old housing, and I remember getting on my knees in that living room and receiving Christ
as my Savior.
And my life has never been the same.
If you read my testimony on our website I say that he turned it right side up.
Why?
Because I was on a road going to nowhere except to separation from God for all of eternity.
Oh, did I have plans, you know, I was 17 years old, I had plans, man, I was going to go to
college, I was going to play baseball in college, and I was going to study electrical engineering,
and I was going to get a good job, and I was going to, and I was going to, and I was going
to.
But the Bible says that it's appointed unto man once to die, and after this the judgment.
A lot of people that are living for all of those here things, and they don't think much
about death, but the reality is that for every single one of us we have an appointment with
death.
We have an appointment with death.
You know the amazing thing is I don't know when it's going to be and neither do you.
We've seen in recent history amazing things that have happened, I mean tragic things that
have happened where people died so suddenly and unexpectedly.
We could talk and we could use illustrations and we find that even in recent history for
us in our region, you think about that bridge that collapsed.
Those people just traveling one morning thinking they were just doing, how many of you have
driven over a bridge since then?
Did you think about it when you drove over the bridge?
Listen, you don't know.
What about the plane that's coming in?
How many of you have ever landed at Reagan National?
You've landed there.
I've landed there plenty of times.
How many of you when you land there you have a window seat and you see the water getting
extremely close to the plane, and you're sitting there and you're like, yeah, I hope that guy's
got enough to get to the runway.
I've done that.
I've flown into Reagan many more times than I've flown into Dulles.
And on that tragic day, all of those people perished.
They didn't think they were going to die.
They were just a few minutes away from landing from a human perspective.
But in a moment, their life was over.
I was driving every day to high school.
School hadn't even started yet.
I was driving to football practice every day, two-a-days, getting ready for that senior
year of high school.
And they always said that Southern California was so beautiful and just so sunny, and it
was El Nino or some kind of somebody that messed up all of the weather in Southern California,
and it was hot and humid, and in the month of February, it rained 25 inches, I think,
the year that we lived there.
I mean, it was just crazy.
And I remember driving that road, I can still see it in my mind, windy, big fall-offs on
either side of the road.
And I remember, if I die, I'm going to go to hell because I'm not saved.
I knew that I wasn't saved.
And thank God for His grace.
Thank God for His grace.
I'm not what I used to be.
Let me just share a few thoughts with you this morning.
Number one, if you're taking notes, I'm on a new path with a new destination.
I'm on a new path with a new destination.
Listen, if you've been saved, if you've been born again, you trust that Christ is your
Savior, I don't know what your spiritual birthday is, you may not remember the exact day like
I do.
Thankfully, my pastor encouraged me to write the day down so that I could remember the
exact day that I got saved, and I try to do that when I talk to people and they get saved,
and I tell them, write this day down, it's your spiritual birthday, but you may not remember
the exact day, but you remember that you got saved.
And if you got saved, you're on a new path and you have a new destination.
And we understand, as Paul says in 2 Corinthians 5 and verse number 8, to be absent from the
body is to be present with the Lord.
We understand, as Paul says, this truth and he makes known that he knew that he had a
new destination.
He was going to heaven when he died.
He was absolutely certain of it.
He knew that he knew that he knew that heaven was his home.
There was no doubt in his mind.
There are times in which I knock doors when I talk to people personally, and I say something
like this, are you 100% sure if you were to die today that you'd go to heaven?
And I can't tell you how many people have said to me, I don't think it's for me to know.
In recent weeks, I've had many people that have said, it's not for me to know, I'm going
to do the best I can, and I'm going to live the best I can, and at the end, we just hope
it all works out.
And I said, can I tell you that that's not biblically accurate.
It's not by your works of righteousness, nor by my works of righteousness.
It's by God's grace and that free gift of eternal life.
And Paul, who's the writer of so much of our New Testament, he said that he knew he
was confident.
If you read all of 2 Corinthians chapter number 5, he uses the word confident and know repeatedly.
Why?
Because God wants us to know.
He says, my sheep, my sheep, hear my voice, and I know them, and I give unto them eternal
life.
Praise God.
He wants us to know.
I've asked people in my office and at their doors, do you have children?
Yes, yes, when I've asked the people, do you want your children to know that you're their
parent?
And they laugh at me like it's a silly question, and it really is.
Because what parent would not want their children to know?
As a child, did you go to your parents every week and say, am I still your child?
No.
There was a knowledge.
And God wants us to know.
And he gave us a Bible so we can know for sure.
And we find that the gift of God is eternal life.
Look at Ephesians chapter 2.
I'm going to read a lengthy portion of Scripture in Ephesians chapter 2, but I want you to
see what happens here in this book and as Paul is writing here to the church at Ephesus.
And notice with me, the Bible begins in verse number 1.
Ephesians chapter 2 in verse number 1, he's writing to people that heard the truth of
the gospel according to verse number 13 in chapter 1, and those that trusted Christ according
to the same verse.
In Ephesians 1 in verse 13, in whom ye also trusted after that ye heard the word of the
truth, the gospel of your salvation.
And so they heard the gospel and they placed their faith in Jesus Christ and they were
saved.
And notice in Ephesians 1 chapter 2 how Paul begins to write to these saved people in Ephesus
at the church here.
He says, and you hath he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins.
The word quicken means to make alive.
I was dead spiritually.
Oh, I was alive physically.
I mean I was in the greatest shape of my life.
I was in the weight room all the time and I was extremely active.
Physically I was full of life.
Spiritually I was dead.
We find that Paul says, and you hath he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins.
And then notice in verse 2, wherein, notice this phrase again, in time past.
We noticed that in Galatians, right?
And he says in time past, ye walked according to the course of this world.
According to the prince of the power of the air, that's Satan, the spirit that now worketh
in the children of disobedience.
And so that was my testimony.
That's where we all were.
We were lost.
We didn't know any better.
We walked in disobedience.
We walked according to the prince of the power of the air.
Verse 3, among whom also, notice this phrase, we all, we all had our conversation again
in times past in the lust of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind,
and were by nature the children of wrath even as others.
Paul says all of us.
We all.
See, every single human being has an issue with sin.
For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God.
Isn't that what the Bible tells us?
It tells us the man that, the soul that sinneth, it shall die in the Old Testament.
We find here that Paul says we all had our conversation.
Where does that sin come from?
It comes from Adam.
And we understand that we have, we are born with a sin nature.
It's nothing unique about you as an individual.
It's nothing that someone is looking down upon you and saying you're a sinner.
No, we're all sinners.
We're born that way.
We all were in that same ship, so to speak.
But the reality is that you can be, continue to stay lost and be...
dead in your sins and your trespasses or you've been quick and made alive and
you're born again. There's two categories of people in the world, saved people and
lost people. Sinners that are saved by grace and sinners that are still lost on
their way to hell. The Bible says in verse number four, I said this to you
in chapter one of Galatians, that there ought to be a conjunction, a but in your
life and we see it here again in Ephesians 2 and verse 4, but God who is
rich in mercy for his great love wherewith he loved us even when we were
dead in sins hath quickened us together with Christ by grace you're saved and
has raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in
Christ Jesus that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his
grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus for by grace are
you saved through faith and then not of yourselves it is the gift of God not of
works lest any man should boast for we are his workmanship created in Christ
Jesus unto good works which God hath before ordained that we should walk in
them. Then notice verse 11 wherefore remember that ye being, see the phrase
again in time past, Gentiles in the flesh who are called uncircumcision by
that which is called the circumcision in the flesh made by hands that's the
contrast between the Jews the circumcision and the Gentiles the
uncircumcision but notice in verse 12 that at that time at what time in time
past according to verse number 11 that at that time ye were without Christ. Do
you remember when you were without Christ? I don't know how old you were
when you got saved but I was 17. I remember when I was without Christ. I
remember laying my head on my pillow at night and wondering what's going to
happen when I die. I wasn't sick I did not have any kind of illness that
thought was going to take my life prematurely from my human perspective
but I still wondered what's going to happen when I die and after sitting in
that church that preached faithfully from this book and hearing the truth
over and over I knew the answer to the question of what would happen when I
died if I died without Christ. I would spend eternity in the lake of fire. I
remember when I was without Christ. Maybe you're sitting here this morning you
say I'm without Christ. That's what you're describing as me. That's my
condition. That's where I am. Praise God that he loves you and he's rich in
mercy and he promises that he'll save you this morning and he'll do for you
what you cannot do for yourself. Notice being aliens from the commonwealth of
Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise having no hope and without
God in the world. But now we see these phrases repeated on purpose. I developed
the message and I picked the passages on purpose but now in Christ Jesus ye
who sometimes those time pass were far off are made nigh how by the blood of
Christ. Listen there's no forgiveness without the remission or there's no
without the shedding of blood there's no remission. We're saved by the blood of
Christ. He went to that cross. You see the cross behind me over our baptistry. Jesus
isn't on that cross anymore. Why? Because he paid for our sin. He shed his
precious blood. He was taken off of that cross and he was placed in a borrowed
tomb and after three days hallelujah he rose conquering sin death and the grave
and he's alive forevermore and I believe is coming back soon and the time is
short. But it reminds us when we see that cross that Jesus paid it all. There's no
other currency if I could use that terminology this morning that can pay
for your sin. So when I'm gonna try to be a good person it doesn't work. It's only
the blood of Christ. Notice verse 14 for he is our peace who hath made both one
and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us having abolished in
his flesh the enmity even the law of commandments contained in ordinances for
to make in himself of twain one new man so making peace and that he might
reconcile both unto God and one body by the cross having slain the enmity
thereby and came and preached peace to you which were far off and to them that
were dying for through him we both have access by one spirit unto the Father now
therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners but fellow citizens with the
saints into the household of God I'm a child of the king hallelujah he is my
father I've been adopted hallelujah we sing the song this morning I'm not who I
used to be see I'm on a new path with a new destination that new path leads me
as we read in Revelation 4 directly to the throne room of heaven to see my
Savior face-to-face what a glorious day that will be yes as a believer I will
stand before him and give an account at the great at the judgment seat of Christ
the Bema but I'm so thankful that I will not stand at the great white throne
judgment because those that say that that judgment will be cast in the lake
of fire that's where I was going to stand but thank God for his grace thank
God for his mercy but God who is rich in mercy and it says for his great love
wherewith he loved us many of the disciples heard these words follow me
follow me you know after we trust Christ is our Savior we hear that same call
follow me so I say I'm on a new path with a new destination see I'm not on
that old path that I was on I'm on a new path and I'm following Jesus and we find
that Jesus said that we're to crucify ourselves take up your cross die to
self follow me what a joy it is to follow Jesus it's a joy I mean he's with
me every step of the way he's never gonna leave me nor forsake me and it
leads to my meeting with him one day what a joy number two not only am I on a
new path with a new destination I have a new purpose I have a new purpose you
know the reality is that we understand that in life there are people that that
sometimes ask this question what am I here for what is my purpose of being
here and and the reality is apart from God and apart from the Bible the the
answer to that question is simply what you desire how can I please self because
self is the one who is to be pleased but I'm not who I used to be I have a
new purpose my life has been changed and we find that not only am I on a new
path with a new destination but I have a new purpose I think about John John the
Baptist in John chapter number three when he says he must increase and I must
decrease see before we got saved it was all about me at least for me I mean it
was all about us it was about what I'm gonna do and about what my plans are and
what my desires are and what my purposes are but now that I'm saved now that I've
been born again I have a new purpose in life and my purpose in life is to bring
honor and glory to God he is my life and we find this morning that yes we can
reference what John the Baptist said in John 3 in verse number 30 when he's
questioned from those religious leaders about all these that were following
Jesus and he says he Jesus must increase and I must decrease I wonder in your
life this morning how much of that is being played out how much are we being
decreased and Jesus is being increased is he the the hero of your story is he
the one that you talk about when you're sharing with others are you able to talk
about how good God has been to you and what he's done in your life because it's
all about Jesus we sing the song more about Jesus what I know listen it's all
about Jesus first Corinthians 10 in verse 31 says whether therefore you eat
or drink or whatsoever you do do all to the glory of God my life verse 2nd
Corinthians chapter 5 you see it when I send you emails you see it in in that
type of correspondence if I write a letter if I sign a card that has my
signature with a verse I always write this verse 2nd Corinthians 5 in verse
number 15 and that he died for all that they which live should not henceforth
live unto themselves but unto him which died for them and rose again I'm so
thankful that I have a different purpose in life
I'm not on a road to nowhere.
I got a new path, but I got a new purpose.
And so often people are living life
trying to advance themselves and to lift up themselves
and it's this never-ending rat race, so to speak.
But when your life and my life, if you're saved,
if you're born again, is about bringing honor and glory
to the Lord Jesus Christ,
many of those things matter not anymore, why?
Because it's all about Jesus.
He is my life.
In Philippians 1, we looked at various passages,
but let me just remind you of what Paul says
in Philippians 1 and verse number 21.
It's a verse that's so precious as you see,
even in the life of the Apostle Paul,
he had this new purpose and Paul was well-educated.
Paul had great potential with regard to
in the Jews religion is so often referred to it as,
but he was born again, he had a new purpose in life.
And we find that in Philippians 1, 21, he says this,
for to me to live is Christ and to die is gain.
Why would he say death is gain?
Because he knew that he was going to heaven.
Listen, if you don't know that heaven is your home,
death is a fearful thing.
If you don't know what's going to happen
when you take that final breath here on earth,
death is a fearful thing.
You say, I'm not afraid of anything.
You go ahead and you face that death
and all of a sudden you're gonna get afraid.
Amen.
Paul says for me to live is Christ, a new purpose.
Now, what I do is to bring honor and glory to my Lord.
I referenced this before,
but I preached a message a couple of years ago now
for the audience of one, that we live for Jesus.
It's all about Jesus.
Why? Because I have a new purpose.
Can I say this?
Number three, I have a new perspective.
I have a new perspective.
Turn to the book of 2 Corinthians chapter number four,
and I know we've been preaching
through the book of 2 Corinthians,
and I dealt with this portion of scripture
not too long ago,
but I want to just revisit it briefly this morning.
In 2 Corinthians chapter number four,
so you have a new perspective,
because the perspective of a lost man
in speaking personally this morning,
my perspective changed drastically.
You ever see the bumper sticker?
I know bumper stickers aren't super popular today,
but I remember seeing it years ago
when there was a bumper sticker that said,
he who dies with the most toys wins.
That's a lie.
It's a lie.
Because somebody else is going to get all your toys.
You know what I mean?
To live for Christ, a different perspective.
Look, I got a new perspective on life.
2 Corinthians chapter four.
As he finishes up this chapter,
talking about the ministry that he has in verse 16,
notice what he says.
For which cause we faint not,
but though our outward man perish,
yet the inward man is renewed day by day,
for our light affliction, which is but for a moment,
worketh for us a far more exceeding
and eternal weight of glory.
While we look not at the things which are seen,
but at the things which are not seen.
For the things which are seen are temporal,
but the things which are not seen are eternal.
Can I tell you this morning that before I got saved,
the only thing I could see was temporal.
I lived on the temporal plane.
That's all I had.
The temporal didn't disappear when I got saved,
but all of a sudden I understood about the eternal.
Does that make sense this morning?
Listen, there's a lot of temporal things around us.
Amen?
The world bombards us with the temporary things,
the temporal things, the pleasures of this world.
But he says we look not at the things which are temporal,
but at the things which are eternal.
See, I didn't have an eternal perspective
before I got saved.
Why?
I didn't understand eternity.
The natural man receiveth not the things
of the Spirit of God for their foolishness unto him,
neither can he know them.
Why?
Because they're spiritually discerned
according to 1 Corinthians chapter two.
I could not understand eternal things
the way that I now can understand eternal things
because I'm saved, and so I have a new perspective.
Everything that I look at and everything
that you look at as a Christian
no longer is just on this temporal plane.
There's an eternal perspective.
There's an understanding of I'm gonna meet
my Savior one day, and what's gonna happen
when I meet my Savior one day?
And see, the reality is that the Bible tells us,
you know, you think about those that are living life,
quote unquote, to the fullest here on Earth,
and they're gaining all of those possessions and toys
and all of those titles and so on and so forth,
but they're gonna die one day,
and like the rich man in the book of Luke,
he's gonna be in hell, and he's gonna desire
for someone to just bring a little water to him.
My perspective has been changed.
Does it mean that we no longer live in this world?
No, we're in the world, we're just not of the world.
We see things differently.
We have a different perspective on how we use our time.
Why?
Because time is all of a sudden short.
Listen, it did not happen in your time.
It did not happen in your life or my life
that time got shorter after we got saved.
It's just that we had an eternal perspective.
Do you understand what I'm saying?
Because all of a sudden, 70 or 80,
and some of you say, I'm already there and past there.
Praise God for extra time, amen.
A good friend of ours, Don Sisk, he wrote a book
about living in the fourth quarter,
because he was over 80.
And then he wrote another book, Overtime.
Praise the Lord, amen.
And then he kept on living, and I said to Holly,
I don't know what the title of his next book's gonna be,
but I'm gonna guess it's gonna be Sudden Death.
He hasn't written another book,
but you know what that man did?
Some of you know Don Sisk.
He's still relatively well, he's over 90,
but he made a decision to move into
an assisted living retirement community
so that he could preach the gospel
to those that were nearest death.
It's amazing.
He's got a perspective that's different.
You understand what I'm saying?
And so, listen, the truth that your life is a vapor
that appears for a little time,
and then vanisheth away, all of a sudden,
we begin to think about, what am I doing for Christ?
I have that eternal perspective,
so my perspective on my time has changed, why?
Because every moment is a gift from God.
How am I living, not for me, in time past,
but now as a child of God, how am I using my time for Christ?
See, my perspective is different.
I'm gonna be with him for all of eternity, hallelujah.
I mean, it's amazing.
Who's gonna be there with us?
You ever think about that when you think about eternity?
Who has God used you, personally,
to reach with the gospel?
Anyone?
You can look in your life, and you can say,
that person's gonna be in heaven
because God graciously allowed me the opportunity
to share the gospel with them.
See, that's what's gonna matter.
I remember sitting in a man's house.
I can't remember his name.
His son came here for vacation Bible school
about eight years ago.
I remember sitting in his house
on the way over to Herndon,
kind of off Vail, over in that area,
and I said, sir, can I ask you a question?
What's gonna matter 500 years from now?
He's like, no one ever asked me that question before.
Is it gonna matter what kind of vehicle we drove?
Is it gonna matter what kind of house we lived in?
It's gonna matter.
Do you understand what I'm saying?
It's a different perspective.
It's an eternal perspective.
And the reality is all of this change
that took place in my life,
and I hope that you could testify this morning,
that it took place in your life
is all because I was born again.
Listen, I didn't get on a new path
by just trying to pull myself up by my bootstraps.
I didn't get on a new path
because I was gonna turn over a new leaf,
or I was gonna do this, that, or the other.
No, I got on a new path because I got saved.
I didn't get a new purpose
because I said this isn't working in life,
and I'm gonna, no, I got a new purpose
because I got saved, I got born again.
I didn't get a new perspective
because I read a book from some human author
on how to become a better you, or whatever it might be.
No, I got a different perspective,
a new perspective because I got saved,
and the Spirit of God used the Word of God
to change me.
I'm concerned about people that say I'm a.
I'm a follower of Jesus, I'm saved, I'm going to heaven, but there's no change in their
life.
Listen, we're living in a world today where a lot of people say, I'm a Christian, but
there's not a whole lot about their life that would tell you that they're a Christian.
Notice what Paul says in Philippians 3.
I had you in Philippians 1 a moment ago.
Look in Philippians 3, and I'll close with this passage of Scripture.
I don't know where I would be today without Christ.
I really don't.
I don't know where I would have gone to college and what I would have studied and where I
would have gotten a job.
I don't know any of those things.
But I thank God that He saved me, and I'm where He wants me to be, and I see the path
of my life.
And you know, the reality is that somebody asked me just recently about having contact
with high school friends or college friends, and I went to college, Bible college, seminary,
but high school I went to public school, and man, most of those people weren't saved people.
Their life is way different than my life.
And I'm thankful for God.
Listen, it's not because there's anything better about me, because the Bible says our
God has no respecter of persons.
He loves the whole world.
I'm so thankful for His mercy.
Notice in Philippians 3, talking about this new perspective, in Philippians 3, beginning
in verse number 4, Paul says, though I might also have confidence in the flesh if any other
man thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I am more.
He begins to talk about this pedigree a little bit, circumcised the eighth day of the stock
of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, and Hebrew of the Hebrews, as touching the law of Pharisee.
Concerning zeal, persecuting the church, touching the righteousness which is in the law, blameless.
But what things were gained to me, those I counted loss for Christ.
You know, none of that was going to get Paul to heaven.
None of it.
Look at me, I'm better than, I got more zeal than them, I got more, I obey the law better
than they do.
No, no, no.
None of that's going to get you to heaven.
He says, yea, doubtless, notice verse 8, and I count, what does your Bible say the next
word?
Does it say all?
It doesn't say some, most, it says all.
He says, yea, doubtless, and I count all things but loss for the excellency of the
knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things and
do count them but dung, that I may win Christ and be found in Him, not having mine own righteousness
which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which
is of God by faith.
James says that if you offend in one point, you're guilty of all.
So we can look at our life and say, I'm doing pretty, I had somebody tell me in Idaho, I
said, you familiar with God's law?
Oh yea.
I said, have you ever broken any of His commandments?
They said, I don't think so.
I said, man, hold on a minute.
I said, one of them things says thou shalt not bear false witness, that means you shouldn't
lie.
I said, have you ever lied?
She was probably 80 years old, she said.
You know, I don't really remember ever lying.
If I ever did, it was just to help somebody out.
That's what she said to me.
I thought, what in the world?
She's trying to get to heaven by her own righteousness.
It's not going to work.
It's not going to work, because all of our good works are as filthy rags.
That's what the Bible tells us.
And so notice Paul says that he wants to be clothed in the righteousness, but he, speaking
of God the Father, hath made Him, speaking of God the Son, to be sin for us, who knew
no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in Him, 2 Corinthians 5, verse 21.
Listen, I have the imputed righteousness of Christ.
It happened that the day that I trust that Christ is my Savior.
His righteousness was imputed upon my account, hallelujah.
Praise God for what He did for me.
And I know for many of you this morning, you say, He did that for me as well, and I rejoice
with you.
He says in verse number 10, notice, that I may know Him, that I may know Him in the power
of His resurrection and the fellowship of His sufferings, being made conformable unto
His death.
If by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead, not as though I had already attained,
either were already perfect, but I follow after.
If that, I may apprehend that, for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus.
Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those
things which are behind and reaching forth unto those things which are before, I press
toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
It's been a great change, great change since I've been born again.
I begin to read this passage in Philippians 3, and I believe it summarizes so well our
message this morning.
I'm not who I used to be.
I'm on a new path with a new destination.
I have a new purpose, and I have a new perspective.
If you're not saved this morning today, you can trust Christ as your Savior.
Don't delay.
The Bible tells us that no man knoweth what a day may bring forth.
You hear the truth of the gospel.
The Spirit of God is working in your heart and your life, convincing you of your sin.
You're guilty.
You know, most people know that they're guilty.
They know they've sinned.
Just righteousness, perfect perfection, and of judgment to come, that's what the Holy
Spirit does.
But I look at this verse, this passage, and I feel that it sums it up.
For those of us that have been born again, what's Paul saying?
All those things that used to matter, they don't matter anymore.
You know what my goal is, my pursuit is?
It's to know Him.
The reality, listen, but I don't know about you.
I just know about me.
Before I got saved, I did not want to go to church.
Before I got saved, I did not read this book.
I didn't.
I didn't grow up in a Christian home.
My parents got saved a few years before I did, and we started going to church.
But I remember that there were times that we went to church, but I really didn't want
to be in church.
There were things that I did as a lost teenager that I'm ashamed of, literally sitting in
the back of a church and counting how many times somebody in the service said amen.
It's stupid, but that's what I did as a lost teenager.
I remember because I was lost.
Would a guy in our church that would say amen, praise the Lord, and he'd say it repeatedly
through the whole service, and we'd sit right back there about where Tony and Ajike are
this morning, and we'd just count.
Just a waste.
But then I got saved, and guess what?
I want to be in church.
You say, well, you're the pastor.
No, no, no.
I was saved.
I've been…
I got…
Today is 28 years that I've been saved.
Two weeks ago, I celebrated 14 years as the pastor here.
You know what that means?
You know what that means for 14 years?
I was not a pastor, but I was a Christian.
And I worked in the corporate world for all those years.
After I went to Bible…
Listen, I went to Bible college.
I had to work my way through college, and I worked in the corporate world.
And I remember standing up and saying, I'm not going to work on Sundays.
I'm not going to work on Wednesday nights.
Why?
Because I'm going to be in church.
Because I wanted to be in church.
Why?
Because I wanted to hear the Word of God.
I wanted to sit under the sound of the preaching of God's Word.
I wanted the fellowship of the believers.
None of that stuff mattered anymore.
I want Christ.
I want to know Him.
I want to please Him.
And I remember making those decisions.
Listen, I've read this book.
Some people have asked me how many times I read the Bible through.
I don't know.
I never kept track of it.
But I read the Bible through multiple times a year typically, and I read it, and I read
it.
If there's ever a day…
I don't know if this happens to you.
You wake up in the morning and some emergency happens, and you might not have your time
with God.
It's happened to me on just a handful of occasions.
Somebody calls.
They've got an emergency.
I've got to end up at the hospital, whatever it may be.
And can I tell you that throughout the day, I'm longing for…
I want to get in my Bible.
Why?
Because this Word is precious.
I don't want to skip a day reading the Bible.
Why?
Because God has something for me.
What happened?
Why did you start wanting to go to church?
Why did you start wanting to read your Bible?
Why did you start wanting to tell people about others?
Did you get religion?
No.
I got saved.
And I'm not who I used to be.
This morning, you ever hear somebody use this phraseology?
It's not used so often now, but it's used a lot in the last 25 years, maybe 35 years
within our circle.
schools, if I could use that terminology. Well, that person really got saved. And sometimes
what they're communicating through that is, man, look at how on fire they are. Can I tell
you that if every single one of us truly understand what I just finished preaching this morning,
all of us, it should be said of us, they really got saved. Why? Because I was going to hell,
like a fire. That was my path. That was my destination. But God in His mercy, listen,
are you saved this morning? Do you have the assurance that when you die, you're going
to go to heaven? If not, in just a moment, we're going to have an invitation. Love to
have you come, take a Bible, show you, you can know for sure. Pray. I just already shared
all the verses, but I mean, just meet with someone. If you're saved this morning, how
often do you rejoice in your salvation? When you evaluate your life, is there a change?
Can you see a distinct change in your path, your purpose, your perspective? Because I'm
not who I used to be, and I praise God for it. Let's pray together. Father, we love You.
We thank You for loving us. We thank You, God, for Your Word. We thank You for the truth
contained therein. God, if there's one here this morning not sure of heaven, God, we'd
love to see them trust Christ today as their Savior. I pray that Your Spirit would move
and work, draw them to Yourself, that today would be the day of their salvation. For every
child of God, would You stir us up this morning? God, would You help us to live for You? Would
You help us to obey and abide in You? I pray that You would work in hearts and lives as
only You can, for it's in Christ's name we pray. Would You stand with me? Heads are bowed,
eyes are closed. Kimberly's going to play quietly on the piano, and as she does, the
altar's open. If you're not sure of heaven, I'll take a Bible and show you how you can
know for sure that heaven is your home. If you're not, if you're saved, man, maybe you
just want to come and thank God for saving you. Just get into His presence, like we sang
that song, Bow the Knee. Just thank Him for what He did in your life and how He changed
your life. As Kimberly plays, the altar is open.
Don't delay if you're not saved. Today is the day of salvation. I'm just going to take
a Bible and chat with you.
I'm just going to take a Bible and chat with you.